First attempt at group quickstart instructions (#29)
ObolNetwork/obol-docs: docs/int/quickstart/quickstart-group.md

---
sidebar_position: 5
description: Run one node in a multi-operator distributed validator cluster
---

# Run a cluster with others

:::caution
Charon is in an early alpha state and is not ready to be run on mainnet
:::

To create a distributed validator cluster with a group of other node operators requires four key steps:
- Every operator prepares their software and gets their charon client's ENR
- One operator prepares the terms of the distributed validator key generation ceremony
    - They select the network, the withdrawal address, the number of 32 ether distributed validators to create, and the ENRs of each operator taking part in the ceremony.
    - In future, the DV launchpad will facilitate this process more seamlessly, with consent on the terms provided by all operators that participate.

> - Every operator runs the ceremony, and once successful, a number of cluster artifacts are created, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Every operator participates in the DKG ceremony, and once successful, a number of cluster artifacts are created, including:
```

    - The private key shares for each distributed validator
    - The deposit data file containing deposit details for each distributed validator
    - A `cluster-lock.json` file which contains the finalised terms of this cluster required by charon to operate. 
- Every operator starts their node with `charon run`, and uses their monitoring to determine the cluster health and connectivity
- Once the cluster is confirmed to be healthy, deposit data files created during this process are activated on the staking launchpad. 

> ### Getting setup with charon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Getting started with a single distributed validator charon node
```
Something sort of like this to have a separate heading for running a single DV node

    ```
    This record identifies your charon client no matter where it communicates from across the internet. It is required for the following step of creating a set of distributed validator private key shares amongst the cluster operators. 

### Performing a Distributed Validator Key Generation Ceremony

To create the private keys for a distributed validator securely, a Distributed Key Generation (DKG) process must take place.

1. After gathering each operators ENR and setting them in the `.env` file, one operator should prepare the ceremony with `charon create dkg`
    ```sh

    # First set the ENRs of all the operators participating in DKG ceremony in .env file as CHARON_OPERATOR_ENRS

    # Create .charon/cluster-definition.json to participate in DKG ceremony
    docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/opt/charon" --env-file .env ghcr.io/obolnetwork/charon:latest create dkg
    ```
1. The operator that ran this command should distribute the resulting `cluster-definition.json` file to each operator.

1. At a pre-agreed time, all operators run the ceremony program with the `charon dkg` command
    ```sh
    # Copy the cluster-definition.json file to .charon

>     cp cluster-definition.json .charon/

Reviewer: i think we don't need this, if everyone runs the commands as mentioned then `create dkg` command by default creates `cluster-definition.json` inside .charon

Author: If everyone ran `charon create dkg`, wouldn't they all have different UUIDs in the files and shouldn't the charon nodes fail the handshake? It has to be one cluster-definition.json shared to everyone, right?
